94 JOHN GREENLEAF wfflTTrER.

“New England Weekly Review.'’ He remained here about two yearS‚ Ἰ

during which he was an ardent politician, of what was then called the
National Republican party, and devoted but little attention to literature.
He published, however, in this period his “ Legends of New England‚'’ a
collection of poems and prose sketche5‚ founded on events in the early
history of the country3 wrote the memoir of his friend Brainard, prefixed
to the collection of that author’s works printed in 18303 and several
poems which appeared in the “ Weekly Review.''

In 1831 Mr. Whittier returned to Haverhill‚ where he was five or six
years engaged in agricultural pursuits. He represented that town in the
legislature, in its sessions for 1835 and 1836, and declined a re-election

in 1837. His poem, “ Mogg Megone‚’' was first published in 1836. He .

regarded the story of the hero only as a framework for sketches of the
scenery and of the primitive settlers of Massachusetts and the adjacent
states. In portraying the Indian character, he followed as closely as was
practicable‚ rough but natural delineations‚ discarding much of the
romance which more modern writers have thrown around the red-man’s

life. In this, as in the fine ballad of “Cassandra Southwick,'’ and in ¹

some of his prose writings, he exhibited in a very striking manner the
intolerant spirit of the Puritans. It can excite no surprise that a New
England Quaker refuses to J oin in the applause which it is the custom to
bestow upon the persecutors of his ancestors. But our poet, by a very
natural exaggeration‚ may have done them even less than justice.

Impelled by that hatred of every species of oppression which per· ’

haps is the most marked of his characteristics, Mr. Whittier entered at
an early period upon the discussion of the abolition question, and after

the year 1836, when he was elected one of the secretaries of the American
Anti-Slavery Society‚ he was among the most prominent and influential ⁵-

· 2 -.-«,- *afn-

advocates of immediate emancipation. His poenis on this subject are full
of indignant and nervous remonstrance‚ invective and denunciation. Mr.
Whittier rates the tyranny of public opinion at its true value. Whatever ἕ
may be its power he despises it. He gives to his mind and heart their Ῐ

true voice. His simple, direct and earnest appeals produced deep and
lasting impressions. Their reception happily showed that plain and
unprejudiced speech is not less likely to be heard thau the vapid self-

praise and wearisome iteration of inoffensive commonplaces employed by ⁴

the great mass of those who address the public.

Although boldness and energy are Whittier‘s leading characteristics,

